AU Wandu, WS
   Tan, CY
   Ogbeifun, O
   Vistica, BP
   Shi, GP
   Hinshaw, SJH
   Xie, C
   Chen, X
   Klinman, DM
   Cai, HB
   Gery, I
AF Wandu, Wambui S.
   Tan, Cuiyan
   Ogbeifun, Osato
   Vistica, Barbara P.
   Shi, Guangpu
   Hinshaw, Samuel J. H.
   Xie, Chengsong
   Chen, Xi
   Klinman, Dennis M.
   Cai, Huaibin
   Gery, Igal
TI Leucine-Rich Repeat Kinase 2 (Lrrk2) Deficiency Diminishes the
   Development of Experimental Autoimmune Uveitis (EAU) and the Adaptive
   Immune Response
SO PLOS ONE
AB Background
   Mutations in LRRK2 are related to certain forms of Parkinson's disease and, possibly, to the pathogenesis of Crohn's disease. In both these diseases inflammatory processes participate in the pathogenic process. LRRK2 is expressed in lymphoid cells and, interestingly, Lrrk2 (-/-) mice were reported to develop more severe experimental colitis than their wild type (WT) controls. Here, we examined the possible involvement of LRRK2 in the pathogenesis of experimental autoimmune uveitis (EAU), an animal model for human uveitis, by testing Lrrk2 (-/-) mice for their capacity to develop this experimental eye disease and related immune responses.
   Methods
   Lrrk2 (-/-) mice and their WT controls (C57Bl/6) were immunized with interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP) and compared for their development of EAU, delayed type hypersensitivity (DTH) by skin tests, production of cytokines in culture, and expression of interferon (IFN)-gamma, interleukin (IL)-17 and FoxP3 by spleen cells, using flow cytometry. Peritoneal macrophages were examined for their production of cytokines/chemokines in culture following stimulation with LPS or the oligodeoxynucleotide CpG. The Lrrk2 (-/-) and WT mice were also compared for their response to bovine serum albumin (BSA).
   Results
   The Lrrk2 (-/-) mice developed lower levels of EAU, DTH responses and cytokine production by lymphocytes than did their WT controls. Intracellular expression of IFN-gamma and IL-17, by spleen cells, and secretion of cytokines/chemokines by activated peritoneal macrophages of Lrrk2 (-/-) mice trended toward diminished levels, although variabilities were noted. The expression levels of FoxP3 by Lrrk2 (-/-) spleen cells, however, were similar to those seen in WT controls. Consistent with their low response to IRBP, Lrrk2 (-/-) mice responded to BSA less vigorously than their WT controls.
   Conclusions
   Lrrk2 deficiency in mice diminished the development of EAU and the related adaptive immune responses to IRBP as compared to the WT controls.
SN 1932-6203
PD JUN 11
PY 2015
VL 10
IS 6
AR e0128906
DI 10.1371/journal.pone.0128906
UT WOS:000356100900033
PM 26067490
ER

