AU Debeuckelaere, C
   Berl, V
   Elbayed, K
   Moussallieh, FM
   Namer, IJ
   Lepoittevin, JP
AF Debeuckelaere, Camille
   Berl, Valerie
   Elbayed, Karim
   Moussallieh, Francois-Marie
   Namer, Izzie-Jacques
   Lepoittevin, J. -P.
TI Matrix Effect of Human Reconstructed Epidermis on the Chemoselectivity
   of a Skin Sensitizing alpha-Methylene-gamma-Butyrolactone: Consequences
   for the Development of in Chemico Alternative Methods
SO CHEMICAL RESEARCH IN TOXICOLOGY
AB Adoption of new legislations and social pressure are pushing toward the development of alternative methods to the use of animals for the assessment of most toxicological end-points including skin sensitization. To that respect, much efforts have been put in the first step of the adverse outcome pathway focusing on chemical interactions taking place between sensitizing chemicals or haptens and epidermal proteins. However, these in chemico approaches have been so far only based on the use of model nucleophiles, amino acids, peptides, or proteins in water/buffer solution and focused mainly on thiol reactivity. These studies even if bringing a valuable set of information are very far from reflecting chemical interactions that may happen between a xenobiotic and nudeophiles present in a complex heterogeneous tissue such as the epidermis. Recently, we have shown that using a high-resolution magic angle spinning (HRMAS) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) technique it was possible to characterize chemical interactions taking place between a skin sensitizer and nudeophilic amino acids present in a 3-D reconstructed human epidermis (RHE). We have now compared the chemical reactivity and chemoselectivity of a sensitizing alpha-methylene-gamma-butyrolactone toward human serum albumin used as a model protein and RHE. Using this technique, we showed that amino acid modifications by this hapten was different according to the model used and that in RHE histidine residues seem to have an important role in the formation of adducts. Obviously, the role of histidine in the induction of skin sensitization has been so far neglected and should probably be taken into account for the refinement of in chemico approaches for the detection and potency classification of skin sensitizers.
SN 0893-228X
EI 1520-5010
PD NOV
PY 2015
VL 28
IS 11
BP 2192
EP 2198
DI 10.1021/acs.chemrestox.5b00363
UT WOS:000364980800015
PM 26496248
ER

