AU Harden, JL
   Lewis, SM
   Lish, SR
   Suarez-Farinas, M
   Gareau, D
   Lentini, T
   Johnson-Huang, LM
   Krueger, JG
   Lowes, MA
AF Harden, Jamie L.
   Lewis, Steven M.
   Lish, Samantha R.
   Suarez-Farinas, Mayte
   Gareau, Daniel
   Lentini, Tim
   Johnson-Huang, Leanne M.
   Krueger, James G.
   Lowes, Michelle A.
TI The tryptophan metabolism enzyme L-kynureninase is a novel inflammatory
   factor in psoriasis and other inflammatory diseases
SO JOURNAL OF ALLERGY AND CLINICAL IMMUNOLOGY
AB Background: Many human diseases arise from or have pathogenic contributions from a dysregulated immune response. One pathway with immunomodulatory ability is the tryptophan metabolism pathway, which promotes immune suppression through the enzyme indoleamine 2,3-dioxygenase (IDO) and subsequent production of kynurenine. However, in patients with chronic inflammatory skin disease, such as psoriasis and atopic dermatitis (AD), another tryptophan metabolism enzyme downstream of IDO, L-kynureninase (KYNU), is heavily upregulated. The role of KYNU has not been explored in patients with these skin diseases or in general human immunology.
   Objective: We sought to explore the expression and potential immunologic function of the tryptophan metabolism enzyme KYNU in inflammatory skin disease and its potential contribution to general human immunology.
   Methods: Psoriatic skin biopsy specimens, as well as normal human skin, blood, and primary cells, were used to investigate the immunologic role of KYNU and tryptophan metabolites.
   Results: Here we show that KYNU 1 cells, predominantly of myeloid origin, infiltrate psoriatic lesional skin. KYNU expression positively correlates with disease severity and inflammation and is reduced on successful treatment of psoriasis or AD. Tryptophan metabolites downstream of KYNU upregulate several cytokines, chemokines, and cell adhesions. By mining data on several human diseases, we found that in patients with cancer, IDO is preferentially upregulated compared with KYNU, whereas in patients with inflammatory diseases, such as AD, KYNU is preferentially upregulated compared with IDO.
   Conclusion: Our results suggest that tryptophan metabolism might dichotomously modulate immune responses, with KYNU as a switch between immunosuppressive versus inflammatory outcomes. Although tryptophan metabolism is increased in many human diseases, how tryptophan metabolism is proceeding might qualitatively affect the immune response in patients with that disease.
SN 0091-6749
EI 1097-6825
PD JUN
PY 2016
VL 137
IS 6
BP 1830
EP 1840
DI 10.1016/j.jaci.2015.09.055
UT WOS:000377527200025
PM 26725996
ER

