AU Veettil, MV
   Kumar, B
   Ansari, MA
   Dutta, D
   Iqbal, J
   Gjyshi, O
   Bottero, V
   Chandran, B
AF Veettil, Mohanan Valiya
   Kumar, Binod
   Ansari, Mairaj Ahmed
   Dutta, Dipanjan
   Iqbal, Jawed
   Gjyshi, Olsi
   Bottero, Virginie
   Chandran, Bala
TI ESCRT-0 Component Hrs Promotes Macropinocytosis of Kaposi's
   Sarcoma-Associated Herpesvirus in Human Dermal Microvascular Endothelial
   Cells
SO JOURNAL OF VIROLOGY
AB Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) enters human dermal microvascular endothelial cells (HMVEC-d), its natural in vivo target cells, by lipid raft-dependent macropinocytosis. The internalized viral envelope fuses with the macropinocytic membrane, and released capsid is transported to the nuclear vicinity, resulting in the nuclear entry of viral DNA. The endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) proteins, which include ESCRT-0, -I, -II, and -III, play a central role in endosomal trafficking and sorting of internalized and ubiquitinated receptors. Here, we examined the role of ESCRT-0 component Hrs (hepatocyte growth factor-regulated tyrosine kinase substrate) in KSHV entry into HMVEC-d by macropinocytosis. Knockdown of Hrs by short hairpin RNA (shRNA) transduction resulted in significant decreases in KSHV entry and viral gene expression. Immunofluorescence analysis (IFA) and plasma membrane isolation and proximity ligation assay (PLA) demonstrated the translocation of Hrs from the cytosol to the plasma membrane of infected cells and association with alpha-actinin-4. In addition, infection induced the plasma membrane translocation and activation of the serine/threonine kinase ROCK1, a downstream target of the RhoA GTPase. Hrs knockdown reduced these associations, suggesting that the recruitment of ROCK1 is an Hrs-mediated event. Interaction between Hrs and ROCK1 is essential for the ROCK1-induced phosphorylation of NHE1 (Na+/H+ exchanger 1), which is involved in the regulation of intracellular pH. Thus, our studies demonstrate the plasma membrane association of ESCRT protein Hrs during macropinocytosis and suggest that KSHV entry requires both Hrs- and ROCK1-dependent mechanisms and that ROCK1-mediated phosphorylation of NHE1 and pH change is an essential event required for the macropinocytosis of KSHV.
   IMPORTANCE
   Macropinocytosis is the major entry pathway of KSHV in human dermal microvascular endothelial cells, the natural target cells of KSHV. Although the role of ESCRT protein Hrs has been extensively studied with respect to endosomal movement and sorting of ubiquitinated proteins into lysosomes, its function in macropinocytosis is not known. In the present study, we demonstrate for the first time that upon KSHV infection, the endogenous Hrs localizes to the plasma membrane and the membrane-associated Hrs facilitates assembly of signaling molecules, macropinocytosis, and virus entry. Hrs recruits ROCK1 to the membrane, which is required for the activation of NHE1 and an increase in submembranous intracellular pH occurring during macropinocytosis. These studies demonstrate that the localization of Hrs from the cytosol to the plasma membrane is important for coupling membrane dynamics to the cytosolic signaling events during macropinocytosis of KSHV.
SN 0022-538X
EI 1098-5514
PD APR
PY 2016
VL 90
IS 8
BP 3860
EP 3872
DI 10.1128/JVI.02704-15
UT WOS:000375123800008
PM 26819309
ER

