AU Park, SL
   Justiniano, R
   Williams, JD
   Cabello, CM
   Qiao, SX
   Wondrak, GT
AF Park, Sophia L.
   Justiniano, Rebecca
   Williams, Joshua D.
   Cabello, Christopher M.
   Qiao, Shuxi
   Wondrak, Georg T.
TI The Tryptophan-Derived Endogenous Aryl Hydrocarbon Receptor Ligand
   6-Formylindolo[3,2-b]Carbazole Is a Nanomolar UVA Photosensitizer in
   Epidermal Keratinocytes
SO JOURNAL OF INVESTIGATIVE DERMATOLOGY
AB Endogenous UVA chromophores may act as sensitizers of oxidative stress underlying cutaneous photoaging and photocarcinogenesis, but the molecular identity of non-DNA key chromophores displaying UVA-driven photodyamic activity in human skin remains largely undefined. Here we report that 6-formylindolo[3,2b] carbazole (FICZ), a tryptophan photoproduct and endogenous high-affinity aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) agonist, acts as a nanomolar photosensitizer potentiating UVA-induced oxidative stress irrespective of AhR ligand activity. In human HaCaT and primary epidermal keratinocytes, photodynamic induction of apoptosis was elicited by the combined action of solar-simulated UVA and FICZ, whereas exposure to the isolated action of UVA or FICZ did not impair viability. In a human epidermal tissue reconstruct, FICZ/UVA cotreatment caused pronounced phototoxicity inducing keratinocyte cell death, and FICZ photodynamic activity was also substantiated in a murine skin exposure model. Array analysis revealed pronounced potentiation of cellular heat shock, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and oxidative stress response gene expression observed only upon FICZ/UVA cotreatment. FICZ photosensitization caused intracellular oxidative stress, and comet analysis revealed introduction of formamidopyrimidine-DNA glycosylase (Fpg)-sensitive oxidative DNA lesions suppressible by antioxidant cotreatment. Taken together, our data demonstrate that the endogenous AhR ligand FICZ displays nanomolar photodynamic activity representing a molecular mechanism of UVA-induced photooxidative stress potentially operative in human skin.
SN 0022-202X
EI 1523-1747
PD JUN
PY 2015
VL 135
IS 6
BP 1649
EP 1658
DI 10.1038/jid.2014.503
UT WOS:000354389200026
PM 25431849
ER

